=head1 NAME

guestfs-inspection - guestfs inspection program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 guestfs-inspection

=head1 NOTE

This man page documents the guestfs inspection program.  Normally
you would I<never> run this program.

If you want to read about guestfs inspection then this is the wrong
place.  See L<guestfs(3)/INSPECTION> instead.

To use inspection on an unknown disk image, see L<virt-inspector(1)>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<guestfs-inspection> is a standalone program that performs inspection
on the local disks, to find out what operating system(s) are
installed.  It normally runs inside the libguestfs appliance, started
by L<guestfsd(8)>, when the caller uses the C<guestfs_inspect_os> API
(see L<guestfs-internals(1)> and L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_inspect_os>).
You should never need to run this program by hand.

The program looks at all disks attached to the appliance, looking for
filesystems that might belong to operating systems.  It may mount
these temporarily to examine them for Linux configuration files,
Windows Registries, and so on.  It then tries to determine what
operating system(s) are installed on the disks.  It is able to detect
many different Linux distributions, Windows, BSD, and others.

The currently mounted root filesystem is ignored, since when running
under libguestfs, that filesystem is part of the libguestfs appliance
(this is the main difference compared to programs like C<facter>).




=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-?>

=item B<--help>

Display brief help.

=item B<--sysroot> DIRECTORY

The directory (which must already exist) where we will mount up
filesystems before inspecting them.  The default is F</sysroot>.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

Enable verbose messages for debugging.

=back





=head1 EXIT STATUS

This program returns 0 if successful, or non-zero if there was an
error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<guestfsd(8)>,
L<guestfs-hacking(1)>,
L<guestfs-internals(1)>,
L<guestfs(3)/INSPECTION>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2017 Red Hat Inc.
